# EzOrdr: Ordering Made Easy
## Team name: EzOrdr
### Group Members: Samuel Steinberg, Ethan Grissom, Aaron Johnson, Viktor Zenkov


## Introduction

EzOrdr will be designed for uses at restaurants, by providing a direct line of communication between the chefs of the establishment and the patrons. This will be accomplished with two distinct interfaces, the interface the kitchen (chefs) sees and the interface the customer submits their order with, which will be connected through a database or another method of communication to be determined. To further clarify, the kitchen will see the orders in form of a queue. Each element in the queue will first be marked as incomplete, and it is the kitchens role to mark orders as complete as they are completed, thereby popping the order from the queue. The time since the order was submitted will also be displayed. On the other side, the customer will make their order on a device such as a tablet the establishment will provide to the table and select which items they wish to order. This virtual menu will be styled for aesthetic purposes as well. The customers’ order will be sent to the kitchen via a database, or another method of communication to be determined. The motivation for this project is the desire to design a simple but powerful product beneficial to both the restaurant and the customer. This is accomplished by making ordering easier for patrons by taking out the filter (waiter) between their food order and the creator of their food, the chef, so that the order of the patron is exactly what they receive. This will also and cut costs for restaurants significantly, as they will not need nearly as many employees that are not involved in actually making the food and they will not waste nearly as much food in the form of receiving the wrong order (mistakes by the waiter/waitress). 

In terms of the current market, our product meets a legitimate need. Currently, there are three main types of restaurants: traditional sit-down, buffet, and ordering in a line (such as Chipotle, Cava, Moes, etc.). Our product fits between ordering in a line and traditional sit-down for those who would like the traditional formal meal, but with the ease and simplicity of ordering in a line. With the widespread availability of tablets, many for under $100, our idea of connecting the patron and kitchen would be of little expense and in the end save restaurants significant amounts of money by making waiters obsolete and requiring only bussers for the customer experience. Additionally, this also fits in line with today’s political climate. Specifically, calls for a $15 federal minimum wage have been growing with more widespread support, causing significant concerns about costs, cutting staff, and reducing many employees to part-time in the restaurant/hospitality industry.  Another political issue has to do with the Affordable Care Act, which makes employers provide healthcare to all employees if they have more than 49 employees. Since many restaurants cannot afford to pay this, our product would make staying at 49 employees or under much more feasible. EzOrdr would cut costs to the point where this shift in wages would not significantly affect workflow and allow employees to remain full-time since overall staff would be fewer than the typical restaurant. The members of our team have both front end and back-end experience, and experience working with databases. Also, each member of our team will make extensive use of data structures such as structs, classes and queues, which we have all made extensive use of in the past. 

Each of our members also have experience in styling and scripting to make elements interactive. In summary, each member is equipped to contribute to both the customer, kitchen, and database portions of the project. To put our project into context, we are designing this product to cut the costs of restaurants and to make ordering as simple as it should be for a customer. Additionally, we believe this satisfies the need of a fusion between a traditional restaurant and the simplicity of ordering in a less-traditional environment along with being prepared for changes that could be brought on in the realm of politics.

## Customer Value

The primary customer for this product will be restaurant owners. The overall goal for our product is to cut costs in a simple and completely feasible way: This product will not produce any technological breakthroughs or develop any new algorithm, but it does fit a niche in the market that has not been exploited and will be completely malleable in the face of change. Restaurant owners want to grow their businesses through profits and build a strong base in customers. EzOrdr will help to grow their businesses through cost-cutting and will also appeal to customers. Customers in search of a higher-quality meal without the overhead of a formal restaurant will be attracted to this type of establishment and will build a following among these patrons. The problem right now is that there isn’t a technology that exists devoted to this type of environment, which does not allow for the development of this type of restaurant. This is intertwined with the context of the current market, since there are really only the three said types of restaurants currently. The rigidness of the current system should allow the type of restaurant we mean to support to flourish and gain a following. 

Our solution to the lack of an available product will deliver the restaurant owner a reliable product that is easy to use and readily available. The costs saved by reducing/cutting the need for waiters/waitresses will be significant on their own, but when also taking into account food waste saving grow even more. It is estimated that 25,000 – 75,000 pounds of food waste are generated each year by a singe restaurant, according to Business Insider. How much of this is through bad orders or imprecise ordering is impossible to establish, but it is fair to consider it significant. Our solution takes care of this by removing the middle-man and having the customer order exactly what they want. The idea has not yet been tested, but we believe this will make ordering at a restaurant faster, simpler, and more efficient than traditional restaurants but more formal than waiting in a line. 

Measuring the success of this product will be quite straightforward: Before an order can be placed, the customer gives a rating of 1-5 (similar to Uber ratings) by tapping the number of starts they wish to give the ordering system. It is important that this is given before they receive their order, so that their experience with our product is not influenced by the food in any way. Additionally, customer-centric success will be built by building customer satisfaction. This directly involves the simplicity of ordering and receiving their correct order that our product strives to provide. In turn, this customer satisfaction generated in part by our product increases the likelihood they come back, thereby growing their Customer Lifetime Value (CLV), a strong driver of profits.


## Technology


## Team and Roles

We will (most likely) be using HTML/CSS for styling and JavaScript for making the elements interactive. Our team may also utilize an object-oriented language such as Java or C++. We expect to experience a learning curve when it comes to actually developing our application, as only Viktor Zenkov has experience in application development. The rest of our team has experience in JavaScript and two members (Samuel Steinberg and Viktor Zenkov) have HTML/CSS/ styling experience. 

In general, the tools our team will use to build our application will present a new experience. Aaron Johnson and Ethan Grissom will be in charge of the database and building the kitchen’s interface, while Samuel Steinberg and Viktor Zenkov will handle the customer interface. This was decided since Samuel Steinberg and Viktor Zenkov have the most experience when it comes to styling and creating an interactive layout, while Aaron Johnson and Ethan Grissom have experience in processing. This array of experiences each member has is why we believe our goals are attainable and why we will be a successful team. In addition, each group member is known to one another as a problem solver and a hard worker. These traits will be needed for this project, as there are bound to be bumps along the way. With due subject to change, roles will be fixed.

## Project Management

The completion of this project is feasible in the time frame if the group works at a consistent pace. We will meet each class period for face-to-face time, along with remote meetings over chat apps such as Slack and GroupMe. Additionally, more face-to-face time will be scheduled, as our group agrees in unison that this is an important pillar in understanding our project and staying on the same page, especially with team members in different roles.  

Below is a general schedule and timeline of work-flow:  

1/20 – 1/26: Write proposal and revise as necessary.  
1/27 – 2/2: Begin application development: Create necessary data structures and build accordingly.  
2/3 – 2/10: Work on building framework for both interfaces.  
2/11 – 2/15: Finish Sprint 1, have minimal viable system running and complete iteration 1 status report.  
2/16 – 2/22: Keep building up system, have kitchen interface completed.  
2/24 – 3/1: Have un-styled customer interface completed and have coordination between kitchen and customer interfaces. Finish Sprint 2 and submit status report.  
3/2 – 3/8: Testing for stable communication between kitchen and customer interface.  
3/9 – 3/15: Style customer side and keep testing. Finish Sprint 3 and submit status report.  
3/16 – 3/22: Keep testing and complete project. If time permits, create platform for customer to pay at table.  
3/23 – 3/29: If necessary, keep working on payment platform. Work on final paper and final presentation.  
3/30 – 4/3: Have project finished, also finish final paper and be prepared to present.  

In terms of constraints, there is nothing to be concerned with. There is no regulation when it comes to ordering food from a tablet, and no legal concerns. Additionally, there are no ethical or social concerns. The user is simply submitting their order directly to the kitchen instead of going through a waiter.   

The only resource we *may* need for this project is access to a database. This should not be an issue as there are servers at UTK that can allow us access.  

If full-functionality cannot be completed, there is a chance there will still be a working product, but this depends on the level of incompletion. For example, if we complete everything but styling elements and payment then this will still be a usable and effective product that will help businesses. However, if both interfaces are fully completed but orders are not being properly received by the kitchen then this product would be useless. Therefore, it is *imperative* that we first create a minimal viable system that can communicate with one another before moving on.

